Now we are going to look at the washer method. We are going to assume we have a region R that is bounded by the graph of f and g so we have this function f which is the upper bound and g which is our lower bound and above the x-axis and we are going to look at the region bound between the vertical line x equals a and x equals b so when I take this region R and rotate that around the x-axis you are going to form this solid over here. Now this solid that is generated what we are going to do to get the volume is we are going to take a slice of it, a cross section here and this one cross section is not a disk anymore now it’s going to be a washer because of the space between g in the x axis there is not going to be a shaded portion of that region that fills in that whole, so now we have a whole here in the middle that is formed by that missing region that space there between the x axis and g of x so, if I want to find the area of this washer I can find the area of the big disk which to find the area of the big disk I just need to know its radius which will be from the x axis out to the furthest place where that region was at, and so that region that radius will be from the x axis out to the f of x so this is the radius of the larger circle and now we need to take out this little circle here in the middle make a whole there and that circle we need to find its radius its radius will be from the axis out to where the region begins which is being from the x axis up to g so this will be the radius of the smaller circle. Okay, so now if I am trying to get the area of that washer I am going to start by taking the area of this entire disk and then I am going to subtract the area of that little circle and that is going to give me the washer itself the region around here. okay so setting up my integral the area of this entire disk here will be just be pi times the radius now its radius is f of x and now I want to subtract this little circle its area which will be pi times its radius square and its radius is g of x. okay, so dx, x is our variable of integration and we are integrating from a to b. that is just accumulating all those areas of those washers. Okay, so let f and g be continues functions where f is larger than g and g is positive then the region bounded by those curves and the verticals lines x equals a and b is given by this formula. Now all they have done they have pulled the pi out and so they have the outer radius square minus the inner radius square. Alright. So, now let’s look at a problem. Let’s say the region is bounded by these graphs we have y equals to the square root of x which y equals square x is this, and we have the curve y equals to x square, that would be this function. Okay, so what we want to do is we want to take that shaded region now in the middle and we are going to rotate that around the axis and we are going around the x-axis in this case. Okay So if you rotate that around the x-axis you will create a solid that looks like this, now take a slice you slicing perpendicular to the axis of rotation and when you take that slice we are going to have, here, this is the region, think of that is a representative rectangle rotate that around and what you are going to get is you are going to get this washer from taking that one little segment and rotating it around the x-axis so I want to find what the area is of that one washer. So to do that I need to find what is the outer radius. You know look at the big circle the whole thing filled in and its radius will be from here to all the way up to there. Which that means it is just going to be the function f of x so we will have pi times the f of x, well the f of x is the square root of x, square. Plus pi f of x square minus pi times now I need the radius for the inner circle for the one we will be subtracting, and that one would be from here to here which is up to the function g so here is our g of x which is the x square one so its going to be minus pi time the g square and now we need to figure out what are x values that this entire solid is spaced between. When We start rotating we are going to start here at x equals zero and last place for this thing is they are telling me is between x equals zero and x equals 1 so x equals 1 will be our upper bound thus the solid falls between zero and one so now that is just the integral that you need to evaluate to get what the volume of the solid will be. Okay, so that is just going to be pi times x minus pi time x to the four, zero one, I am going to pull out the pi just to get it out of my way and I got x minus x to the four now I am ready to take the antiderivative so I’ve got pi times ant derivative of x is x square over two, x to four will be x to the fifth over five, and now I want to evaluate that from zero to one thus put one in you have pi times one half minus one fifth and then minus what you get when putting zero in which is just going to be zero, so I’ve got five tens minus two tens, It will be three tens times the pi and that will be your value of that solid. Okay.