

	I want to rework a couple of these problems that require multiple amputations of integration by parts using a method called tubular method. When it looks like it might be using more than one application of integration by parts it will really speed up the process. You will not need to do the separate u-substitution and the separate choosing the u and dv and substituting in a couple of times. So start the same way and your going to use that LIATE acronym to determine what's your u is going to be and for this problem I will choose u to be my x square so u is going to be my x square. Now instead of saying u equal and choosing my du am going to make a table out of it. Am going to choose my u and then I will choose my dv. The u right here will be x square and the dv is what is remaining so e to the x dx. Now what I'm going to do normally when you find your u take the derivative of it. I'm going to continue taking the derivative of it until I actually get down to zero or it will start repeating itself. So the derivative of x square is two x and derivative of two x is 2 and finally zero. Okay the anti-derivative of e to x is e to the x keep taking anti-derivatives so the anti-derivative of e to x is e to the x again and the anti-derivative of e to the x is e to the x again. So here your finding anti-derivatives and here your finding derivatives. Okay so now when you get your answer your going to be moving diagonal. Remember this one would have been the v here, your using integration by parts, which the first term would be u v so here is our u v and then is usually minus the v du but we are going to stop and we are not going to do that. Where we do the minus the integral of v du, we are going to continue to go down the list of things your going to be subtracting your answer. So the first thing you do is x square e to the x, the next part of your answer will be two x e to the x but that part needs to be subtracted and then your going to have the two e to the x and that part is going to be added. You're just continually using the same choice of the u and dv repeatedly. So your final answer then is just going to be the x square e to the x minus the two x e to the x plus the two e to the x and then plus a C if you needed if you don't have limits of integration. It's a much more simpler process then having to choose another set of u dv what you already have done the first u v minus the integral of v du.

	Okay another one, on this one we went through the LIATE and we decided to choose the trig function to be our u so we started with u equal the sin of x and that left off the dv to be e to the two x dx. Okay so again I don't want to have separate, I don't want to make multiple choices here so here's my u's and here's my dv's and I am not going to go full with the dx because I know this is always dv's and am always will be integrating them. Okay so now choose the derivative, continue to calculate the derivative of the u until it starts repeating itself or it gets to zero. It will never get to zero on this case but it will start repeating itself. So I will have cosine of x, the derivative again is minus sin of x and now I got that sin that is recurred here. So the next one e to the two x, am going to have e to the two x its anti-derivative is one half e to the two x and the anti-derivative again will be one fourth e to the two x. So this one is different from the other one we are not going to actually finish and find an answer because we will end up with another integral here but is still saves us time to do it with this tubular method. So again here's my u v with what am going to start with and it's going to be exactly as the way it is and the next one is going to be minus this product cosine x one fourth e to the two x and now when I see that it starts to repeat itself that's when I'm going to start to tight it off and so the way I tight it off is am going across now to end it but when I go across instead of an angle am going to have to put another integral. So this integral, integral e to the two x sin of x dx will equal to the u v with the sin x one half e to the two x minus the one fourth e to the two x cosine of x and now am going to add a plus here and always alternate my signs and now plus the integral of one fourth e to the two x times that negative sign so let me put that negative in front here. So all am doing is taking out that product. This product and putting the integral with it and of course I got that dx there. Okay so now lets see if we can get this thing finish. I got one half e to the two x sin of x minus one fourth e to the two x cosine of x then I have the minus and I'm going to pull the one fourth out the integral of e to the two x sin of x dx. But in the other side we recall that we have that e to the two x sin of x dx. So now those are some matching terms. So again I'm just going to bring this one over to the other side and when I do I'm going to end up with five fourths integral of e to the two x sin of x dx equals one half e to the two x sin of x minus one fourth e to the two x cosine of x and so finally solving for e to the two x sin of x dx is going to give us e to the two x sin of x dx and then multiply both sides by fourth fifths so I'm going to have two fifths e to the two x sin of x minus one fifth e to the two x cosine of x. It didn't save a whole lot but it still simplify the process of not having to do the double integration by parts. So just be aware of the tubular method you have to tight off sometimes, if that power of x will go down to zero you just keep going until it turns to zero but if you see if it starts to repeat itself your going to need to stop it and the way to stop it you go straight across and put that product in with an integral and then just continue to solve it from there.  

	 
