

	Ok so now we know that the integral of natural log of x is just x times natural log of x minus x plus C. This is an application of integration by parts. Okay so now lets say that we are ask to find a solid revolutions volume. So R is a region bound by the function y equals natural log of x, the x-axis, and the line x equal to a, where a is greater than one. So lets draw a graph of that function or that a region. So we have y equals natural log of x, which the natural log function looks like this. It got its place that crosses the x-axis is at one and then a is some vertical line that it's the end of the right side of that region. Okay so now the region; the area we are actually going to be revolving around the x axis will be this region in here. Okay so now that we revolved that around, we can either use the shell method or we can use the washer method, actually we are using the disk method because that area it goes all the way down to the axis that is rotating around so it will be a disk not a washer when is revolved. Okay so what I want to do then, I'm going to use the washer disk method. I'm going to look at a representative rectangle that's perpendicular to the axis of rotation. I'm going to slice it this way. We kind of want to see what those volumes shape it's going to look like this and then it's going to be three-dimensional here. So you're going to have that solid there. So we take that representative rectangle and rotate that around the x-axis, we are going to end up with this disk that we need to find what the volume is. Okay it's a big circle with a little line which it will be your theta x or dx. To find the area of that phase of that circle its just going to be pi r square. So all we need is to figure out what the radius is. Well the radius of this big circle is just this height that goes up to the function y equal natural log of x. So setting up our integral we are going to have the volume that equal to the integral pi r square to get the area of that disk. So pi times the radius and the radius is natural log of x square dx. Now we have variables x, so we need to know what the variable x values are of that area is between. So its going to be between the x is a of one and x is a. Okay so we want to integrate this. Well I see a natural log of x square there. If I try to use u substitution I will let u be natural log of x but again there's no one over x there. So the next thing I do try integration by parts. So the integration by parts I'm going to let the u be that natural log of x but because I got two of them I need to beat the whole thing. So the u is going to be the natural log of x square, now that pi in front I'm not going to worry about that pi, I'm just going to pull it out. Okay our u substitution, never mind is integration by parts and we are going to choose u to be that natural log of x square and that's going to leave me with dv equal the dx. Now I could of chosen the u to be just the single natural log of x but that would of required the dv to be a natural log of x with the dx and that's not some simple to integrate unless we use that formula that is right above. So we could of done that also. Using it this way the du it's going to be two times, I got to use the power rule and the chain rule. Two times natural log of x to the first power times the derivative of natural log of x which is the one over x dx and our v is just going to be a single x. So now substituting those in, I'm going to have pi times the u times the v, so it's going to be x times natural log of x square minus the integral of the v du so minus, I'm going to pull that two out, I have a natural log of x times one over x times x dv and that one over x and x cancels. So this will become pi times x natural log of x square minus two times the integral of natural log of x dx. Okay now using what we already have found well we did the natural log of x dx, which is this part, now because we have limits of integration we don't have to worry about the plus C. We just substitute that in for that last natural log integral. So it will be pi times x natural log of x square minus two times x natural log of x minus x. Okay so I got pi times x natural log of x and let me go ahead and plug this in, our values are from one to a. There's not a whole lot to simplify. So if I plug in the a, I'm going to have pi times a natural log of a square minus two times a natural log of a minus a and then I'm going to have minus but I get to plug in the one so its going to be pi times one natural log of one square and then minus two times one natural log of one minus one. Okay so that pi is times the whole thing. Okay so cleaning this up just a little bit, I got pi times a natural log of a square minus, I'm going ahead to distribute these two through, two times a natural log of a plus two a and then natural log of one its actually zero. I'm just going to end up a plus two times that pi so minus two times pi so there's not a lot to do here. A pi times natural log of a square minus two a pi natural log of a plus 2 a pi minus is two pi. 
