
Okay I am going to look at the remainder in a Taylor polynomial. The remainder is the error. Okay so you have the function, the f(x) you are trying to approximate, and I am trying to approximate it with the p sub n polynomial, the Taylor polynomial of order n, then the error will be that function f(x) which is the function that we are trying to approximate minus that polynomial
So we are going to call that Rn(x) and that is just the remainder in approximating f(x) with pn(x). Okay so now lets say that we are trying to approximate e^x in this first graph, the one on the left. So we are trying to approximate this function using the Taylor polynomials. The gold one here is p0(1). Okay and you just see it is a line. It is actually a horizontal line, it is not even just a line with a specific slope. It is a horizontal line with slope = 0
Okay so we got that constant function. Then we are going to use the line which we are going to have the tangent line at that point at x=0 and this is our Taylor polynomial of order 1. So that is actually using a line with the slope, the same slope that that function has at that point. Okay then we are going to use the 2nd order polynomial which is our parabola here which is p2(x) and then we are going to use, of course that one is going to agree with the point, the slope, and the 2nd derivative at that point
And then we are going to use the 3rd order polynomial, p3. So that is going to agree with the functions value, the 1st order derivative, the 2nd order, and the 3rd order derivative at that point x=0. Now I want you to look at these remainders. The remainder is that function that will be the difference of the two. The f(x) minus the polynomial.
And I am going to show you the graphs of these remainders. Okay so if our function that we were approximating with was just p0, t is that horizontal line. All of it agrees with the points value there. It doesn't agree with the slope at the point x=0.
Then the difference will be just, lets see that particular line is actually the line y=1. So the remainder R0(x) will be the function e^x - p0(x) which we said is just y=1. So that would be e^x - 1. So that particular remainder function is this one graphed over here. That is your R0(x).
That is showing you the remainder. That means the y value for that function is the error involved at each point. Okay so you can see there is going to be pretty great error. Any y value over here will be the error, but the only place there is no error then is at the origin. So what we want in an approximation is we want an approximation to be as close to the x axis as possible for it to be a really good remainder.
Okay so now lets look at a 1st order polynomial. I am now using the 1st order polynomial which is the red one on the graph. And so if I want to see what that remainder is, the remainder function which is gotten by e^x minus that polynomial, that 1st order polynomial is the remainder, is the one in red on the right,
You can see that that error is pretty good in a small interval around x=0. So it is approximating very closely here. You can see the black and red one here have really good approximations. So the amount of the error is what is actually above the x axis in the remainder function. 
Okay so now lets look at our 2nd order polynomial, now lets get rid of these ones first. Okay our 2nd order polynomial now is going to agree pretty wide interval here. It has got pretty good approximation to the function, you know the e^x. And notice the error function then is almost coinciding with the x axis then in that, it should be if it is agreeing with the y value the remainder function is the original function minus that y value of the function we are approximating with
So you see that that error is almost 0 in a pretty good interval there and then finally lets look at the 3rd order polynomial. And now we have a wider range where our functions value agrees way out here. It is almost you know exact for that interval.
And you can see the interval where it is almost at 0 here is even wider around x=0. So we want to look at the remainder now and we are hoping that remainder is getting closer and closer to 0.

So now, f is a continuous function and it has continuous derivatives. It has to have at least n+1 derivatives for us to be able to look at that nth order polynomial and its remainder function
So it has to have derivatives n+1st order derivatives at some interval around a. This is, the function itself, is the Taylor polynomial plus the remainder. The remainder is just the difference between the function and the nth order polynomial.
Now the remainder is given by this expression. Okay now this is part of the mean value theorem that actually proves this so it is really beyond the scope of this book, but this form will give you what that remainder is going to look like. It is going to look like that n plus, remember we did an alternating series that n + 1st term was estimating the remainder. Very similar here. We can look at that n + 1st term for a Taylor polynomial and that is going to be part of the expression of the remainder here. 
So the x-a to the n + 1st power and then this is the coefficient of the Taylor polynomial for the n+1st term except we are not evaluating it at a. We are evaluating it at some c in that interval. So c in that remainder is some point between the x that we are using to approximate and the a we are centering at
Okay so that is how we will figure out what the remainder is going to look like. Okay so if we want to estimate the remainder, how far off is it? 

The way we can figure that out is we need an upper bound for the n + 1st order derivative for any c value. So find some number that you know is always larger than that n+1st order derivative. The remainder, the absolute value of the remainder which is just the difference between the function and that nth order polynomial, will be less than or equal to the M which that is just the upper bound, that n + 1st term. So that was that coefficient of that previous problem times the absolute value of the x - a. so this is telling me how far the x is away from the a you are centering at over that n + 1st factorial. 
So notice here this M, all we are doing is we are taking an upper bound of this value right here and that is what the M is referring to. Okay so if I want to find the remainder, I want to find a bound for the magnitude for the reminder. I am going to use this formula. Now the remainder I can actually calculate by looking at the specific x. okay but if I want a bound for the magnitude, what I am going to do first is I am going to find what this piece of n is going to be or what that nth term, the bound is actually the bound for the n + 1st order derivative of that function
So if this is my f(x) I need to look at what is that n+1st order derivative. Well lets look at some derivatives. F prime will be -sinx. F double prime will be -cosx. F triple prime will be -(-sinx) so we will be back to sinx. And then f 4th prime, so you can put a little 4 in parenthesis up there. Sometimes you will see it written with roman numerals also and that is how they refer to the order of the derivative. So this of x or you can write it as f with a little 4 up there.
Of course you start getting pretty big after a while. Anyways so a little subscript with parenthesis is better. And then the derivative of the sin is cos. Lets just keep going. F(5)(x) is now -sinx and hopefully now we are repeating. 
So it is always going to be coming back to those same four values over and over. So I am looking for a bound for the remainder term. So what I need is this M and the magnitude of the M is whatever the 4th order derivative, well actually n+1st order derivative. I do not know particularly which on it is
That 4th order or 5th order or 6th order or whatever derivative I get, I know it is always one of the sin or cos functions with a + or - sign. So whatever this nth order derivative is if I take the absolute value of it when I evaluate it at a specific number I know it is always less than or equal to 1
So all I am doing here is I am looking at any c that I can possibly plug in to any derivative of the cosx function. And I know that will always be less than or equal to 1 and that is just because we know what the trig function, sin and cos, are bounded by
So the M here is what that greatest possible value of any of these derivatives could be for any number I plug in. So if I want to find an upper bound for the remainder Rn(x) it is going to be less than or equal to 1 times x - a and what is my a.
I am centered at 0 so x-0 to the n+1st depending which order polynomial you are using over (n + 1)!. Notice that this remainder depends on the n. which polynomial you are using. So the upper bound on R sub n is less than or equal to the x to the n+1/(n+1)! So that gives me about for the magnitude of the remainder term for the Taylor polynomial centered at 0. 
So now let's say they want me to approximate cos(0.1) using p sub 10. So notice that remainder term depending on which polynomial. So I am going to use n=10 since they say p sub 10 here, and I want to use that r sub 10 - I want the remainder of the polynomial using polynomial sub 10 - order 10 - r sub 10 of x then will be less than or equal to the absolute value of x^11/11!
So now they are telling me for a specific x though, if I am approximating cosx - that was the function I used - and now they are just saying to let x=0.1, so we are looking at r sub 10 of 0.1, that remainder using the 10th order polynomial to approximate cosx, which is approximating cos(0.1), will be less than or equal to 0.1 - that is positive, so I do not need the absolute value - to the 11/11!
And if you approximate that out - use your calculator - that is 2.5*10^-19 - a very small number. So if we use the 10th order Taylor polynomial to approximate cos(0.1) where we had that polynomial centered at 0, we are going to have 18 digits of accuracy. So we can get - all you need to do to get that bound for that remainder is to find out what is the bound for the derivative. So you are going to have to calculate a bunch of derivatives to see if you can find some number that is always bigger than every possible value plugged in for that or any of those derivatives.

Okay I want to find the error in approximating e^0.45. I am going to use the Taylor polynomial of order of 6 for f(x)=e^x, so my remainder term Rsub6 is going to be less than or equal to - I need the upper bound so - m. m has to be an upper bound for the 6th order derivative or 7th order derivative for any c.
And then we have the x-a, and we are centering this at the 0 - so 0 to the (n+1) over (n+1)!.
Let us go and calculate what these derivatives are. We know that f(x) is e^x, and fortunately, all the derivatives will be e^x, so the (n+1) 1st order derivative is also e^x. so this f 7th order derivative of f will be e^x, but I want to evaluate it at some number c to get my upper bound, so this is going to be the 7th order derivative of x which is e^x and evaluate that 7th order derivative at c, and I am going to get e^c
So this is just e^c, and I need to find some m so that it is less than or equal to m. notice that I drop the absolute value because I know that is positive - e to the any power is positive. In particular to this problem, c is any number between 0, which is where we centered it at, and the x. Now the x here that we are going to use to approximate is 0.45. So c has to be any number that is between 0 and 0.45. So anything 
So if we want to make sure that for any c that they pick from 0 to 0.45 that we have an upper bound for it, then we just need to make sure that our c covers every possible value up to 0.45. So what I am going to do is I am going to choose - and I need to choose something pretty easy for me to calculate because that c is an exponent, and I cannot calculate e^0.45 in my head. The easiest exponent that I can calculate is a square root - e^1/2. 
So I am going to choose c=1/2 because I know it covers every possible value in here. I know that for any c in that interval, e^c will be less than e^0.5, or e^1/2. I changed the square so you can see that it is more of a square root.
So for any c between 0 and 0.45, I know e^1/2 has to be bigger than that. Now partly that comes also from the fact that - remember that e^x is a function that is increasing, so if I have xs here from 0 to 0.45, 0.5 over here is going to have a larger y value than any of the xs I choose between 0 and 0.45. So I know that this is greater than e^c for any c between 0 and 0.45. okay so now 2.7^(1/2) - so now I am taking the square root of e, which again is not an easy problem, but let us see If we can approximate e with something that is easier to calculate the square root of. Well 2.7 I do not know. 3 I do not know of exactly. What if I said that - I know this is smaller than 4^(1/2), because I can easily get the square root of 4, and I know 4 is bigger than e. 
Okay so now I finally found what I can do in my head easily and get a nice, pretty exact answer, so what I am going to use for my m. m does not have to be the very smallest number. M just needs to be a small number that you know will bound. The better approximation you can get for M, that means the closer you are going to actually have to how much error you can have, so you want it to be as tight as you can but it does not have to be the lowest number.
So I am going to use m=2, and I know that that is always bigger than any number between 0 and 0.45. So if I want the error for approximating e^0.45 using a 6th order polynomial, it is going to be less than or equal to 2 times the absolute value of x to the (n+1), which will be the 7th power, over 7!, and so now specifically I am approximating 0.45. So the error involved with using that 6th order polynomial to approximate e^0.45 is going to be less than or equal to 2*|0.45|^7/7!, and if you use your calculator to get that, it comes out to be approximately 1.5*10^(-6). So the error involved with approximating using that 6th order polynomial is very, very small, so you got a very good approximation just using that 6th order polynomial. If you actually went through and actually used the 6th order polynomial to approximate e^0.45 - remember we got 1+x+x^2...so we would have 1+0.45+(0.45)^2/2+(0.45)^3/3!+(0.45)^6/6!. So that is what we are actually computing by using that 6th order polynomial, and we get 1.5683114, and the error using that is going to be accurate to at least 5 decimal places so the error is within 1.5*10^(-6). 
So that is a very good approximation using just a polynomial to approximate that e^0.45
