	Okay we have done indefinite integrals that required integration by parts things that reverse the product rule whenever you're taking the derivative. So now we are going to look at what if you are giving an integral that maybe a product in it or something maybe required the product rule while taking the derivative but now we have limits of integration. You're going to do the same thing you are going to apply your integration by parts to define what the anti-derivative of the function is and then you will evaluate those limits at the end. 
	So the form for that is that the integral of u dv equals u times v so if you just do that part and don't have the integral at the end anymore go ahead and evaluate it from a to b and then the part over here that still haves the limits of integration on it you just keep those limits there with the integral sign. So all we just do is to recognize that requires integration by parts and then we will just evaluate it at the end. 
	So looking at this problem do y'all remember I need the first prime of basic and none of my basic integral have the natural log at the integrand so next thing I try is to use u-substitution. Well there is not really much here for the prime for the u, you can try u to be natural log of x but the du will require one over x to be there but there's no one over x to that problem so the next thing we try is looking at integration by parts but we don't have a product here so natural log of x times the dx is a product but is just not as obviously as two function of x multiplying together but lets figure it out if we did integration by parts what would we choose for our u to be. 
	We recall our little acronym LIATE; this is the order you will choose for your u's. So first thing I want to do is if I have a logarithm part of the integrand, log or natural log then that's what I will choose to be for my u. The reason is because we can't integrate natural log alone but we can find its derivative so this one will be pretty quick because natural log of x will be our u. So am going to have u equals natural log of x and my dv is whatever is left and we know is dx so now my du would just be one over x dx and my v will equal x. Okay so now substituting those in using integration by parts I got the integral of natural log of x dx is equal to u times the v so the natural log of x times the x minus the integral of the v which is x which is times the du which is one over x dx. Then it becomes x natural log of x minus the integral of one dx and it becomes much more simpler to evaluate. So it turns to be x natural log of x minus x, now I don't need my plus C because I know I have those limits of integration so the limits are from one to two is going to result just evaluating this function from one to two. So plugging in my two, I'm going to have two natural log of two minus two minus plugging in the one natural log of one minus one. Recall natural log of one is just zero so this becomes two natural log of two minus two plus one. My final answer would become two natural log of two minus one. That would be the answer for this definite integral.  

