Now we want to find the tangent line of the curve given in polar form. The equation in polar form will be r = F(theta) I'm going to change that to parametric form remember that X is equal to r cosine of theta and Y equal to r sign of ? so where I have r we are going to replace that with F(theta) now if I want to find dy/dx remember for parametric equations that was dy/d(theta) over dx/d(theta). Now to dy/d(theta).  Because theta is in both F(theta) & sin(theta) I need the product rule so I have F(theta) times the derivative of sin theta which is cosine of theta plus sin of theta times the derivative of F(theta) which is just F prime of theta. Now the denominator is dx/d(theta).  Again I need the product rule to take the derivative of F(theta) cosine of theta. So it will be F(theta) times the derivative of cosine of theta which is negative sin of theta plus cosine of theta times the derivative of F(theta). okay so what we get for dy/dx then is f prime of theta sin of theta plus F(theta) cosine of theta divided by F prime of theta cosine of theta minus F(theta) sign of theta.  This formula can be used to find the derivative the slope of the tangent line for functions given in polar form r equal F(theta).


Okay let's find the slopes of the lines tangent to the circle r equal 10 in this one by writing the equations in parametric form, I have X equal R cos(theta) which will be 10 cos(theta) and Y equal R sin(theta) which is 10 sin(theta) so dy/dx is equal dy/d(theta) over dx/d(theta). dy/d(theta) I only have theta in the sin(theta) so I don't need the product rule.The derivative of 10 sin(theta) will be 10 cos(theta). Now dx/d(theta) take the derivative of X which will be 10 times negative sin(theta) so we simplify to get cosine theta over sin(theta) and that's negative which is the same thing as negative cot(theta) so now if I want the slopes of the lines tangent to the circle I can plug-in the value of theta and get negative cot(theta). So, find where the horizontal tangent lines occur.or where dy/dx is equal to zero which occurs when the numerator which is cos(theta) is equal to zero. cos(theta) equal zero when theta equal pi over 2 and 3 pi over 2. If I want to find the vertical tangent lines that's going to be where the denominator is zero or the denominator zero and the numerator is not zero. so I want to find where sin(theta) equal to zero but cos(theta) is not equal to zero. sin(theta) equal zero when X is equal to zero pi and 2pi and none of those will have cosine theta being zero. So the slope of the tangent line to the circle will be given by dy/dx equal negative cot(theta). Let's look at the equation R equal to 10 which in polar form is the equation of the circle.  Notice when theta equal to zero here tan lines will be vertical also theta equal to zero.  The lines are vertical when theta is equal to pi over 2 we have a horizontal tangent line and likewise when theta equal to 3 pi over 2. Let’s look at a point like theta equal pi over 4. Here notice the tan line there and appears like it has a slope of about -1. If we actually calculated that using the formula that we just found, dy/dx with the negative cot of pi over 4, which is equal to -1. so we found the equation here that would give us the slope of the tan lines at any point along the circle.

Okay now lets find the points on the interval minus pi to pi at which the cardioid with the equation r equal one minus cos(theta) has a vertical or horizontal tanget line. okay I am going to use the formula that we found  to find the dy/dx so I have dy/dx equal F prime theta sin(theta) plus F(theta) cos(theta) all over F prime of theta cos(theta) minus F(theta) sin(theta) so F(theta) equal one minus cos(theta) so that means  that F prime of theta will be negative negative sin(theta) times the sin(theta) plus F(theta) which will be one minus cos(theta) times cos(theta) all over F prime theta which will be negative negative sin(theta) times cos(theta) minus F(theta) times sin(theta) okay simplifying will have sin squared theta plus cos(theta) minus cosine squared theta all over sin(theta) cos(theta) minus sin(theta) plus sin(theta) cos(theta). Substituting for sin squared theta, one minus cosine squared theta is the trig identity plus cos(theta) minus cosine squared theta over  2 sin(theta) cos(theta) minus sin(theta) the numerator is negative 2 cosine squared theta plus cos(theta) +1 I can factor sin(theta) out of the denominator 2 cos(theta) -1.  From the numerator I'm going to factor negative one out of the numerator. Negative one i will have 2 cosine squared theta minus cos(theta) -1 and now factor in the numerator have to cos(theta) +1 and then -1, to determine where we have vertical tan lines vertical tan lines appear when the denominator is zero so when sin(theta) equal 2 or 2 cos(theta) -1 equal to zero but the numerator's not zero we have horizontal tan lines when the numerator is zero which means that 2 cos(theta) +1 equal to zero or cos(theta) -1 equal to zero but when the denominator's not zero let's determine when the numerator and the denominator of both zero first. well the numerator will be zero when cosine of theta equal -1/2 or cos(theta) equal to one cos(theta) -1/2 when the reference angle is pi over 3 and we are in quadrants two and 3 so that would be 2 pi over 3 and 4 pi over 3 or we could say negative 2 pi over 3 instead of four pi over 3.  cos(theta) equal one when theta is equal to zero. Now since the range of values they gave us are asking for were negative pi to pi instead of using 4 pi over 3 we will use negative 2 pi over 3. now the denominator will be zero when sin(theta) zero which means that theta is equal to zero, pi, and also negative pi in that interval. cos(theta) equal one half when the reference angle is Pi over 3 and the angle is in quadrants one and 4 so that would be pi over 3 and minus pi over 3. okay so to determine where the vertical tan lines occurs where the denominator is zero but the numerator's not so that means that we have to exclude where  the numerator was zero so we will have the numerator's not zero at 2 pi over 3 and negative 2 pi over 3. Then we have the vertical tan lines at negative pi, pi, pi over 3 and negative pi over 3. or horizontal tan lines occur when the numerator is zero but the denominator's not zero so we are going to have to Pi over 3 and negative 2 pi over 3. zero is where the numerator and denominator is zero.



