Taylor polynomials are the polynomials that we have been working with that been used for approximations for y=f(x). A Taylor polynomial will agree with the functions value, the first derivative at the point, the second derivative at that point and as you go with higher and higher degrees it is going to always agree with that nth order derivative.
Now we had our second degree polynomial, p2(x), which is our Taylor polynomial degree of 2. We had it as f(a) plus f prime of a times x minus a plus f double prime of a over 2 times (x-a)^2. 
If we wanted to extend that now to a 3rd order polynomial we would start with that one. The nice thing about these polynomials is they are built on top of the previous ones so that you are adding an extra term then to make it a higher degree. 
So the 3rd order polynomial would actually be f(a) plus f prime of x (x-a) plus f double prime of a over 2 ( x minus a) ^2 and then plus some c3(x-a)^3. Now we already know that the polynomial degree 2 here matched the functions value. So f(a) was p2(a) and it is then going to be also p3(a). Now the reason I can tell easily is because if I evaluated this thing at a this last term is just going to be 0.
Having that term (x-a)^3 is just going to make that term 0 as you plug in x=a. so we see that p3(a) is also going to agree with the functions value. F prime of a agreed with the derivative of a. Now if you took the derivative of f p2 you are going to still have some x-a left in this last term. 
Likewise, lets go ahead and take the derivative of p3. If I took, I had p3(a), p3 prime of x, this term is going to have derivative of 0. This one the f prime a has a derivative of f prime of a. This one I need the power rule. So I am going to multiply 2 in front so I am going to have 2 times f double prime of a over 2 and then x minus a to the first power and then I am going to have plus 3 c3(x-a)^2.
Okay, I can see here now that p3(a), the derivative of it when I plug in my a, this last term is going to be 0. So it is still going to agree with the functions value, the derivative of the functions value. It is just like the p2 prime did.
Okay lets take the second derivative now. P3 double prime of x, the derivative of this one woll be 0. This one will have derivative f double prime, that is a single prime there, no it is a double prime.
F double prime of a plus and now the derivative of this last term I am going to multiply the 2 in front so I am going to have 3 times 2 c3 times the x - a. Okay and I can see if I plug in x=a right here I am going to have that p3 double prime of x when I plug in x=a, p3(a), will be equal to f double prime of a
So it agreed with the functions second derivative as well. And so now finally p triple prime of x, the derivative of this one is 0. The derivative of this one, here is our only x term. So the derivative is going to be the 3 times 2 times c3 but I want this to agree with the functions third derivative at a.
So let me go ahead and plug in x=a. I am going to have that p triple prime of a is equal to 6 c3 and I want that to be equal to the function fs third derivative which means that the c3 that we are going to use when we define this 3rd order polynomial should be f triple prime of a over 3 times 2.
Okay so my third order polynomial Taylor polynomial then will be p3(x) = f(a) + f prime of a times (x-a) + f double prime of a over 2 (x-a)^2 + f triple prime of a over 3 times 2 (x-a)^3. Now if you notice the pattern here, the number that is on the bottom is actually building the factorial. 
So that if we looked for the nth polynomial, it is going to start the same way, and the nth order derivative of a over n factorial is going to be the coefficient of that nth term and that is what this is.

Taylor polynomial. We got a function f that has derivatives defined at a. The nth order Taylor polynomial with center at a we are going to denote it as pn. It has property that it matched the functions value. The first order derivative matches. Now the nth order derivative matched the nth order derivative of the function.
Now notice this parenthesis around the n. that is referring to the nth order derivative. Now the nth order Taylor polynomial is given by this right here. And that is exactly is what I just finished writing down. Okay and if you want to write it using summation notation you can write is like this where we are using c, k is the coefficient, but then ... that the ck then are the kth order derivative over k! of a. 
Okay, so now that is the Taylor polynomial. So lets see if we can construct a Taylor polynomial

I want to find the first order polynomial, the second order polynomial, up to the 7th order, p7, for the function f(x) = sinx. So I am looking at the sin function over here in black and I want to center it at 0 so I do not have to worry x minus anything. It is just x. 
Okay I am going to go ahead and write out what the 7th, what it is going to look like. P7(x) is going to be f(a) which is 0. This is my a. plus f prime of 0 and then x minus 0 so times x. since my a is 0 it is times x. plus f double prime of 0 over 2, x^2, plus f triple prime of 0, x^3 over 3!, plus f 4th order of derivative, now this is where this gets ridiculous so that is why they just start putting in the parenthesis with a number in it
So that is the 4th order derivative at x=0, x^4 /4!, plus the 5th order derivative of the function at 0, x^5/5!, plus the 6th order derivative at 0, x^6/6!, plus f to the 7th of 0, x^7.7!
So the polynomials order, it is not always the same as the degree so be careful. The order matches the order of that derivative. 
Okay so now lets see what these values are. The easiest way to do this is to go off to the side and write down what the function is and what some of the derivatives is. F(x) = sinx. F prime of x = cosx. F double prime of x = -sinx. F triple prime of x = -cosx. 
I need to go all the up to 7th order derivative. F 4th order derivative of x =  -(-sinx) so it goes back to sinx again. F 5th order derivative will be cosx. Notice we are starting to repeat ourselves. F 6 will be -sinx. And f 7 will be - cosx .
And I see 8 is going to be the same as the first one was. So now those are the f derivatives of x but I need to always plug in the 0. Whatever the a is. So now f(0), f prime 0, f double prime of 0, f triple prime of 0, 4th derivative at 0, ...
You already ... it makes it... here. Put in the 0 in the f and you get sin0 = 0. F prime 0, cos 0 = 1. -sin0 = 0. -cos0 = -1. Sin0 = 0. Cos0 = 1. And we know we are just repeating the same values over and over.
Okay so now those are the values I am going to plug in for f(0), f prime of 0, f double prime of 0, f triple prime of 0 and so on. 
Okay so my 7th order polynomial. Now the nice thing about this is if I get the 7th one, the 6th one is just going to be breaking it off sooner. So lets go ahead and build it up from the bottom now. P(0) is just going to be, they did not ask for p(0) they want p(1) so this one.
P(1) is going to be f(0) which is 0 + f prime of 0 which is 1 times that x. p2(x) will be the first 3 terms. So I will have 0 + 1x + f double prime of 0 which is 0, and I am going to go ahead and put in the 2 to emphasize that in the formula
P3(0) so p3(x) will be these 3 terms + the next one. 3rd derivative a 0 which is -1 x^3/3! And now the next one. P4(x) will be 0 + x + 0x^2 /2 - x^3 / 3!. And now it is going to be the 4th order term. The 4th one is 0 x^4/4!. P5, we will simplify these. There is x. Again notice p1 and p2 are the same.
Then we have x-x^3 /3! but then p4 is the same. Okay p5(x) will be x - x^3 /3! But I need to add the 5th term. The 5th term will be plus the 5th order derivative at 0 which is 1. X^5 adding this term right here. X^5 / 5! And notice the 6th order derivative is just going to be adding this term which the 6th order derivative is 0 again. So p6 is going to be identical to p5. 
I want you to, I want to emphasize this. I would be adding the 6th order derivative which is 0 over 6! x^6but it still does come out to be the same thing as the previous one. Okay p7(x) now I am going to start with what I just had for the 6th one.
But now add the 7th term which is + the 7th order derivative which is -1 x^7 / 7!. Okay that is all the ones they asked for. Now notice p1 and p2 were the same. Now this is where I want you to note something really important here. 
The Taylor polynomial degree 2 is this one which is the same as the Taylor polynomial of degree 1. Okay it just so happens that they are the same but you cannot tell the difference so if I wrote p(x) you would not know which one it was. You would not know if it was the 1st or the 2nd order derivative in this case.
Likewise p3 and p4 are the same so you do not know when you look at this if that is the 3rd or the 4th order Taylor polynomial. So you have to be really careful here. You need to understand which polynomial you are actually getting to know which order derivative you actually included.
See the 4th order polynomial includes that 4th order derivative here whereas the 3rd one did not. O be real careful when they tell you the order of the polynomial, that is not the same as the degree of the polynomial.
See those are both degree 3 but the order of the polynomial is order 4. Okay so there is a big difference there. Order will include that order derivative. That particular derivative that 4th order derivative just like the 6th one includes the 6th order derivative term even if it comes out to be a 5th degree polynomial.
So these two polynomials are the same. Those are not the same. These two are the same. This one is the 6th order polynomial but the 7th, these two are the same but one of them is the 6th order polynomial and one of them is a 5th order polynomial.
So just, this is the 5th order polynomial and it is degree 5. This is the 6th order polynomial because it included that 6th order term when you were calculating it even though it is a 5th degree polynomial in this case.
So the degree of the polynomial is not necessarily the same as the order of the polynomial.	Notice here as you continue to go up, all of these polynomials only have odd terms. Now you remember the sin function? This is an approximation for the sin function. Remember the sin function is an odd polynomial. The approximation will only contain odd terms. 

Okay I do want you to look at one thing though before we quit this section. We are centering this thing around 0 right now. If I look at the 1st order approximation that is that line. The 3rd order is that cubic equation. That is the 3rd degree polynomial, 3rd order polynomial. And that notice how that approximated it better as you get further away from 0.
See the 1st order one was just real close to 0 but the 3rd one is actually better further away. The 5th order one is even better. It is better all the way out here. I mean it almost coincides all the way out to that past the pi/2 and pi/2
The 7th order polynomial is going to be a better approximation. Now further away it gives you a wider interval that it is approximating well. You can see that the higher the order derivative is an approximation for a larger interval around where it is centered. 

