Okay.  Now what we want to look at is the limits of sequences and we are going to do that by comparing them to limits of functions that we are familiar with. So let’s say that we have a function f so that f(n) is an so that is defining the sequence.  Now if we know that the function f(x) where x has the domain of all real numbers has a limit of L, then the limit of that sequence is also going to be L.  So that is theorem 9.1.  So let’s say I want to look at the sequence an is n over n plus one.  Well the sequence is just these dots that are on the graph.  But we know the function f(x) is x over x plus one has a horizontal asymptote at y equal to one.  Well since we know that the limit of f(x), as x approaches infinity, is one, then we know that the limit of this sequence n over n plus one as n approaches infinity must also be one.  Because those values of the sequence are actually on that curve so as the x gets larger and larger, those terms are also going on that same curve toward y equal to one.  Okay now we are going to use some of our properties back in Calculus one.  But now they are for sequences so if I have a limit of the sum of two different sequences, of the difference, that is the same thing as just taking the limit of the first sequence plus the limit of the second sequence.  Now here I am assuming that each of these sequences converge independently so we are going to assume that the sequences an and bn have limits A and B so those two limits individually must exist for this to be true.  But if it is, we can break the limit of the sum into the two different limits, evaluate them separately and get what that sum, the limit of those sums would be.  Okay same thing if it is a constant times a sequence.  So an is a sequence we know converges to some number so then the limit of a constant times that sequence will be that constant times the limit of the an.  And we know that that one did converge so that is just c times the A.  If you have two sequences where their corresponding terms are being multiplied, that can be written as the limit of the a sub-n times the limit of the b sub-n.  This is only assuming that each of those individual limits actually existed. And that limit will be whatever the limits products would be so A times B.  Likewise, if you have a limit of a quotient a sub-n over b sub-n.  Assuming that a sub-n converges and the limit of b sub-n converged that will be the limit of the a sub-n over the limit of the b sub-n which will then be the A over B.   So as long as each of those sequences individually converge to some number, then we can take these sums and scalar products and products of the series, of the sequences, and quotients of sequences and get those limits.  Okay I want to find the limit of this sequence.  The limit of three n to the third over n cubed plus one as n goes to infinity.  Again we went over this earlier.  Take the largest power of the variable this is in the bottom in the denominator and divide the top and the bottom by it.  So I am dividing the top and the bottom by n cubed.  So I am going to have three on the top.  On the bottom dividing by n cubed I get one plus one over n cubed.  And now we can see that as n gets larger and larger, this one over n cubed is going to be going to zero.  So this sequence then has a limit of 3. Okay now we need to review some things that we did back in chapter 7.  It was section 7.6.  It was these indeterminate forms.  When you had limits that you were trying to find where you have a function raised to a function.  So you got the variable in both the base and in the exponent.  And if the result is that the limits are of this form, one to the infinity, zero to the zero, or infinity to the zero, those are indeterminate forms.  The way we calculated those back in 7.6 was we first rewrote this.  We wrote f(x) to the g(x) as e to the natural log of f(x) to the g(x).  Then that allowed us to bring that g(x) down in front of that log so we were trying to find this limit and we changed it to this limit.  Then we could take the limit of just this exponent, calculate that usually we got to L’Hopitals rule, we wanted to find the limit using L’Hopitals rule which usually required you to change it to a quotient at some point and then whatever you got for that limit was the exponent on the e.  So refer back to section 7.6 if you need to refresh your memory on that.  So calculate this limit using L’Hopitals rule and then that will be the e to that power will be the limit.  Okay growth rates.  What is meant for something to grow faster than something else?  We showed that this logarithm—a power of a log grew more slowly than x to a power which grew more slowly than x to a power times a power of the log, which grew more slowly that x to a power where that power was a little bit bigger than this one right here.  So just any bigger exponent and then that grew slower than the b to the x which is your exponential functions and then here are our tower functions that grew the fastest. That is where you had the variable in both the base and the exponent.  So those were our ranking growths that we did back in chapter 7.6  What is meant for something to be earlier in this ranking of this growth rate is that the limit of the smaller one over a larger one was zero. So something grew more slowly than something else then we would put the smaller on the top and that limit had to be zero.  Fit if you put the larger one on top, that limit was infinity.  So for example, let’s say that we are looking at x to a power and b to the x. Because s to a power grew more slowly than b to the x that means that if we wanted the limit of a ratio, if we did x to the p over b to the x as x goes to infinity, that limit was going to be zero since this one appeared earlier in the table.  Or had we done the limit of x to the x, which is the fastest growing over b to the x. Since this one grew faster since it is later in the chart here, in this ranking, then that limit is going to be infinity.  So remember what it means for things to be placed in this growth ranking.  Okay so now I want to find the limit of this function.  Five plus n over n to the nth power.  That is the sequence and you can see the notation here.  We are starting n equals one to infinity.  That is the sequence and you can see the notation here.  We are starting n equals one to infinity so here the sequence is in explicit form.  So we are taking the limit as n goes to infinity.  Well I would first try to evaluate the base here, five plus infinity over infinity.  Well I know that this has a limit of one if you just took the limit of the five plus n over n.  You could divide the top and the bottom by n and you would get f over n plus one over one over n.  That limit is one.  So the form here is one to the infinity form.  Okay  and when we do have that type of form, what we want to do is we want to change it to the limit (notice I have got the same variable in both the base, this base here and in the exponent.  So I am going to rewrite this as e to the natural log of 5 plus n over n to the nth power.  And then I am going to use the logs to bring this n in front of this logarithm.  So now I am going to have the limit of e to the n times the natural log of 5 plus n over n.  I am jumping ahead of myself here.  I can break that into two separate terms and write that as 5/(n+1).  So let me go ahead and do that.  Five over n plus one just breaking this up into two fractions.  Okay so now what I want to do is I want to take the limit of that exponent. So I want the limit of n times the natural log of 5 over n plus one as n goes to infinity.  Once I figure that out I have my limit.  It is e to that power.  Okay so now, to find this limit I would evaluate. This term would be infinity.  This second term would be zero plus one which the log of one is actually zero. So this is actually an infinity times a zero form which we learned L’Hopitals rule when you had an infinity times zero, you could rewrite it.  So I am going to rewrite this, instead of n times natural log of 5 over n plus one, I am going to rewrite this as the limit of natural log of 5 over n plus one over one over n (as n goes to infinity).Just flipping this n here so that I can get a quotient.  Now the form will be a zero over a zero form.  And now I can apply L’Hopitals rule.  Okay so now.  You do that by taking the derivative of the top, which is one over five over n plus one, times the derivative of the argument which is negative 5 over an squared, divided by the derivative of the denominator which is negative one over n squared.  Now the n squared is going to cancel and the negative signs would cancel.  I am going to end up with just that 5 on the top with the 1/5/(n+1). So tat is just going to be the limit of 5 over 5 over n plus 1 and now as n goes to infinity this part goes to zero and so that limit is just 5.  Okay now remember what we were looking at was this right here.  And that was just the exponent on the p. So our limit is actually e to the 5 and that is it.  So that’s the limit of the original problem .  Okay now the next one.  I want the limit of e to the minus n times n to the tenth, as n goes to infinity and I am going to write that first with positive exponents.  So that will be n to the tenth over e to the n.  Now if I try to evaluate that right now, I am going to have infinity on the top and infinity on the bottom.  So that is an infinity over infinity form so I could use L’Hopitals rule.  Now L’Hopitals rule because of that n to the tenth power would require me to do ten iterations of L’Hopitals rule.  I would continue to get infinity over infinity for many times.  So what I am going to do is I am going to refer back to my growth table where I saw n to a power.   It is actually stated as x to the p grew more slowly than b to the x.  So I got my variable here which is the base.  So this is an algebraic expression which fits the form x to the p.  The variable is the base, p is just some constant and b to the x is where the variable was in the exponent and b was just some number.  So the e to the n is just a form of b to the x.  Well because of this growth ranking that meant that the limit of x to the p over b to the x as x goes to infinity is going to be zero.  So I can conclude then that the limit of n to the tenth over e to the n is also going to be zero.  And I am going to give  a reason as the growth rankings, or the growth rate table.  So I will give you that list of functions and how they are ranked.  Just be sure to tell me when you are using it so I will know how you made that decision.  Okay.  
Now I just want to look at a few graphs and define some terminology here.  If we have a sequence where each term is greater than or equal to the previous term, that sequence is called non-decreasing.  So you have had the term for functions where it was an increasing sequence.  That meant that the terms were getting larger each time.  Here it is saying that the previous terms were greater than or equal to the previous terms.  So it allows them to be the same from one to the next.  So for sequences you use the term non-decreasing as opposed to increasing because you are also allowing them to be equal to the previous terms.  A sequence where each term is less than or equal to the previous term is called a non-increasing sequence so non-increasing is similar to our decreasing functions except we are allowing the terms to actually be equal to the previous terms also.  SO when you hear non-increasing, think decreasing but they are allowed to be the same and non-decreasing would be the same as our increasing functions but we are allowing them to be equal also.  Okay a sequence that is either non-increasing (non-increasing would be an example of some sequence that is going like that) or non-decreasing , except it is going to be individual dots.  Non-decreasing would be something where they are getting larger or staying the same.  A sequence that is either of those is called monotonic.  That means it is only going in one direction.  So monotonic is either non-increasing or non-decreasing.   Now a sequence whose terms are all less than or equal to some number or greater than or equal to some number is said to be bounded.  So if you take a finite sequence and the absolute value of the terms is less than or equal to some number then it is said to be bounded.  So a bounded sequence the terms are all less than or equal to some finite number.   So now determine if the sequences are bounded or not.  Now we are going to look at the graph to tell that and if they are bounded we want to find what number they are less than or equal to.  I am going to make sure.  I think I stated it wrong a while ago but a sequence whose terms are less than or equal ot some finite number.  Now that is taking the absolute value of all the terms.  If there is some number that they are all less than or equal to, it is said to be bounded.  It is not bounded from above or below. For a sequence we are talking about just having any number that is always greater than or equal to the absolute value of the terms.  If I were graphing these values, they are all starting at one and subtracting a fraction off.  I know you can plug in numbers and actually get the numbers.  I am going to show you the graph and show how they relate to the definitions.  This first one, one plus one over n.  You can see that the first term, when you put in n = 1 is two and they are going to continue because each term is going to be smaller because you are going to have one plus a smaller fraction each time.  So those terms of that sequence, you can see from this graph, the terms of the sequence are all actually less than or equal to the number two.  So for the first one.  One plus one over n.  Those terms are all less than or equal to 2.  SO this will be the M which will be that bound of the sequence.  So this is a non-increasing sequence.  The terms are not getting bigger.  They are getting smaller in this case.  It is a non-increasing sequence and it is bounded by th3e two that is bigger than any of the terms of the sequence.  In the second one here we have one minus one over  n.  The first term you put in one is actually zero and then we are going to be subtracting less each time so those terms are going to be growing.  They are getting larger.  It is a non-decreasing sequence.  It is not decreasing.  It is actually increasing but we don’t call sequences increasing.  We call them non-decreasing or non-increasing.  It is bounded because there is a number that is larger than every number in the sequence.  So we would say that the terms one over one minus n is less than or eq1ual to one.  So this would be the bound for that sequence.  Now I want to look at a couple others.  N to the three-halves over n to the three-halves plus one.  This was not one of those rational functions but you can still look at the limit in the same way by dividing the top and the bottom by that biggest power which is n to the three-halves.  I would have one over one plus one over n to the three halves as n goes to infinity.  And you could see that this term will go to zero so this limit is approaching one.  There are terms that are all positive that are going to be getting closer and closer to one as you go.  The second sequence the only difference is this term minus one to the n that is going to cause the signs to oscillate.  So let us look at the picture of these.  You can see in the first picture that the terms are getting larger and larger,  It is actually a non-decreasing sequence and it has a limit, an upper bound.  The upper bound is less than or equal to one.  So it is a bounded sequence and it is a non-decreasing sequence.  And it had a limit of one.  Now this other one though.  Those terms were getting closer and closer to one but because of that alternating sign here they are going to be oscillating.  We will start here then.  We are going to go here.  They are both approaching one or negative one as they go but the even terms will be approaching one and the odd terms will be approaching negative one.  Now it is not a non-increasing or non-decreasing sequence because the even terms are non-decreasing and the odd terms are non-increasing.  But they do have an upper bound.  Every term in that sequence, the absolute value of those terms  is always less than or equal to 1 so it is bounded.  But it is not monotonic.  It is not non-increasing or non-decreasing.  We will see a theorem later that if you have a non-increasing or non-decreasing sequence (you have a monotonic sequence) that is bounded, it will converge.  But we will look at that again later.
