

	There will be times when you might need to use integration by parts more than once. So you may not recognize that in the beginning but a lot of times if you have the power of x, the exponent might, you know if its higher than one might indicate that you might need to do it more than one time. So I'm going through the same idea of choosing my u and my dv. My u I'm going to choose to be the power of the x. So the u its going to be x square in this case and the dv will be e to the x dx. So that means my du will just be two x dx and my v will be e to the x. Okay now following the formula, I know this is a u dv, we chose this to be our dv and everything else is the u here. This answer will be the same thing as the u times the v minus the integral of the v times the du, that's your formula for your integration by parts. So plugging in the parts, the u is your x square and your v is e to the x minus the integral of the v which is e to the x and then the du is two x dx. Now you're going to notice this integral will reduce to two now has an x with e to the x. It's a simpler integral now because we only have now x to the first as suppose x to the second that we started with. So this integral, you recognized the product its going to require another application of integration by parts. So I'm going through it again, I'm going to let my u be just a single x and the dv will equal to e to the x dx, that means the du will equal to dx and v its just going to be e to the x. So the only thing to be careful here is when you apply this, your applying the integration by parts to this portion of it. Whatever you get haves to be multiply by this negative two that is on front. So I'm just going to go ahead put this brackets around it so I will know minus two is multiply by all that. So x square e to the x minus two, I'm going to have u v which is x e to the x minus the integral of the v which is e to the x du. Okay so now the second integral in the bracket its something we can evaluate it, is just e to the x. So I'm going to have x square e to the x minus two x e to the x, so now just distribute the minus two over the other integral its just going to be plus two and the anti-derivative of the e to the x its going to be e to the x and then we will put our plus C. So can't simplify that because there are no like terms but this is the integral of x square e to the x dx. Okay e to the two x sin of x, now this one is not so obvious how you're going to choose your u and your dv. Now some people I have seen to pick this up on YouTube, they use this little acronym name LIATE to help determine what's the u is going to be. So this is to help to choose the u. Okay log, if there's a logarithm problem you got to choose that to be your u because you can' take an anti-derivative of a log but you can take the derivative of a log. So a logarithm will be the L, so the next thing is an inverse function so if you see an inverse sign in that, you can take the derivative if that inverse sign but none of our integrals haves an inverse sign as our integrand. The third one is an algebraic expression; those are the things that it can be written as sums or differences of x to powers so that's where that x to the second or x to the first comes in. The T our trigonometric function so something like a sin or cosine, we might need to choose that for our u next and the thing will be our exponential function something like e to the x. Go ahead and use this order and it usually simplifies all this process. So no logs here, no inverse function, and there's no algebraic either because you have that e to the two x sin of x. There's no things that looks like a polynomial. Trig well lets go ahead and do that. Let u equal to the sin of x. So that will leave our dv to be e to the two x dx. Okay so this is our u, our du will just be cosine of x and our v, remember when there's a constant times that e to the two x you are really using that chain rule like a derivative. You will need to use u-substitution and it comes out to be one half e to the two x. Okay so now plugging in I got that integral of e to the two x sin of x is equal to the u sin of x times the v one half e to the two x minus the integral of the v which is one half e to the two x times the du. Okay now look at the integral that you just get of the result of that, does it look simpler. Actually for this one looks kind of equivalent which the one we started with. Now we are trying to get the integral of e to the two x sin of x and we end up getting it in terms of this other integral over here. Integral of e to the two x cosine of x. It really doesn't look any simpler at all; it looks about the same. So lets see if we can use the u-substitution one more time and getting anywhere with it. So I'm going to look at this integral and I want to chose my u and my dv. I'm going to do the same idea before and I'm going to choose my u to be the cosine so that's going to make my dv to be everything else. So if u is cosine of x, dv is e to the two x dx, that means that your du its going to be negative sin of x dx, and your v is going to be one half e to the two x. So now just to make sure I don't loose any negative signs here, I got one half e to the two x sin of x minus one half and I'm going to replace this integral with the integration by parts. So I'm going to have u v, the u will be cosine of x, the v will be one half e to the two x minus the integral of the v du, so its going to be one half e to the two x and then times a negative sin of x dx. Okay so I have one half cosine of x e to the two x, put my negative and one half out so I'm going to have a plus one half e to the two x sin of x dx, okay that's what in the brackets there, and then one half in front. So the reason I'm writing all this down is to know what equals to what and I'm going to need this just a minute. Okay simplifying again on the right, I'm going to have one half e to the two x sin of x. I'm going to distribute that minus one half through so I will have minus one fourth cosine of x e to the two x minus one fourth the integral of e to the two x sin of x dx. Now we still don't have an integral looks pretty much exactly the same the first one did but what's good about it looking exactly the same is that the coefficient of it looks different than what's in the other side. So look at this last statement I have, I have the integral of e to the two x sin of x dx equal to the stuff at the right. There's actually some like terms, this integral its repeated right here but with a different quantity of it, a negative one fourth. So what I want to do I want it to combine that so that's what I'm actually solving for anyway. I'm looking for this integral e to the two x sin of x dx. I'm going to bring this one to the other side, that's going to give me one whole integral of e to the two x sin of x plus that one half that is brought over. So I'm going to have five fourth of this integral e to the two x sin of x dx and then I'm going to have one half e to the two x sin x minus one fourth cosine x e to the two x. So now if I'm solving for this e to the two x sin of x, all I need to do is to multiply by fourth fifths. So the integral of e to the two x sin of x will be equal to fourth fifth times one half e to the two x sin x minus one fourth e to the two x cosine x and then you can just distribute that fourth fifth through the problem. So final answer will be two fifth e to the two x sin of x and then minus one fifth e to the two x cosine x and that is equal to the original problem and then don't forget about the plus C.
