Now let us look at the shell around the x-axis. So I have a region R in the first Quadrant. Its bound by the graphs y equals sqrt of x-2. You know what the square root of x looks like. Were just going to shift that over 2 units so well have the sqrt of x-2. And the line y equals 2. Now let us see where these are going to intersect. If y equals 2 and the other curve is the sqrt of x-2 that means that 4 equals x-2 and that means that x equals 6 when they intersect. I just want to get that intersection point. So, the first quadrant, bound by those two graphs. The region we are looking at then is going to be this region right here. And now we are going to rotate that around the x-axis. So be sure you pay attention to which axis you arere rotating it around.
Now you have to figure out what will my representative rectangle look like? What piece am I going to take and rotate it around the axis? If you want to use the shell method, which is what we're going to practice here, you need to choose a piece that’s parallel to the axis you are rotating it around. So to get a shell, pick an arbitrary y value here. You can choose any horizontal piece from y equals 0 to y equals 2. Any horizontal piece like that corresponds to some constant y value. So let's say I am looking at this piece right here. And I am going to rotate that around the x-axis. What I am going to get by taking this one little rectangle here is I am going to end up getting a shell generated by that little piece. And so my goal is to find the volume of that shell. So now looking at that piece you’ve got to decide, using the shell method, the shell method says that the volume is going to be the integral 2pi*raidius of the shell*height of the shell times the thickness of the shell, which is the dx or dy depending on which variable we need. Let's not worry about that right now. Let's just see what the radius looks like. The radius here in this picture, the radius of this cylinder would go from the axis out to the edge of that cylinder. So what does that correspond to? Well, that corresponds to that y value that we chose to form the cylinder for. So the radius here will just be the 2pi*y. I chose the y when I chose this representative rectangle here. I was looking for something parallel to the x-axis that’s just an arbitrary y and that does define what the radius of that cylinder is going to be. Now the height of that cylinder if you look at the picture is going to go from here up to here. The height is in this direction. Its this length from here to here, the length of that segment I chose. What determines that? What is that length? That length is going from the y-axis out to a point on that curve. That's what stopped me when I drew that thing. So that’s going to be that value. Is it an x or y value? Since it’s a horizontal distance its actually an x value but it corresponds to whatever that curve is here that stopped it. So it's going to be the x value for this function. So we need to figure out what the x is. Well y equals sqrt of x-2. That means that y^2 equals x-2 so that means x equals y^2+2. So the x value that is the height is y^2+2. Here my height, this is the radius, I have 2pi. I am going to need dy. That's the thickness of that little rectangle that I drew, the delta y. And now because I am dealing with y’s, what possible y’s could I consider? I was considering anything from y equals 0 here up to the top of that shaded region so that’s y equals 2. So from 0 to 2. So we have 2pi integral of y^3 + 2y dy from 0 to 2 and that’s going to be 2pi*y^4 over 4+y^2 from 0 to 2.
So, 2pi*(4+4)-0 equals 16pi. That will be the volume of that solid created by rotating that region around the x-axis