I want to find the area between these two graphs. So f(x)=x+3 we know is just a line. 
And then g(x)= the absolute value of 2x. We know what the absolute value function looks like. Its just going to be a little steeper because of that two being multiplied. But I know it goes through the points (0,0),(1,2),(2,4),(3,6). So it looks like that’s going to be where those two intersect. And then over here (-1,2) and so on. So that’s the region were referring to here. So when you're setting up your limits of integration you need to know what are the two intersections. What is the far most left x coordinate and what is the far most right x coordinate that that region is trapped between? And just by plotting the points we saw that this point was where x is -1 and verifying both of those it would be the point (-1,2). So they have that point in common and (3,6) is the other point in common. So our limits of integration are from -1 to 3, those x values. When I'm starting to set this up the first thing I'm going to do is I'm going to start looking at my rectangles. My farthest left most rectangle is going to have to occur here where the x is equal to -1. And I'm going to have rectangles, up and down, all the way over until I get to x=3. Look at the rectangles that I'm forming here. Sort of sad looking rectangles but whats the upper bound for those rectangles? Where does the upper bound of that rectangle touch? Which curve? It's touching the curve y=x+3. What about the lower bound? The lower bound is touching the absolute value function. Now is that true the entire time until we get to x=3? Notice that its true but the equation for the bottom function changes. You don’t want to use absolute values in your integral. You're going to have to change that, removing those absolute values. That's going to mean when x=0, we're going to have to change what the equation is. If you recall, an absolute value function y= the absolute value of 2x is defined to be 2x when x is greater than or equal to 0 and -2x when the x is negative. So we actually have two different equations. This is the line y=2x and over on this side the line is y= -2x. So this portion is actually a different equation than the equation of the line here once we remove those absolute values. You can set it up if you want to. You can say the integral upper bound is the x+3 minus the absolute value of 2x. Its fine to start off that way but at some point you’ve got to split it up so that you can remove those absolute values and evaluate it. So well do that by splitting it. We know our limits go from -1 to 3. So I'm going to split this. I'm going to look at the integral from -1 to 0 and that will be x+3 minus, now the equation, the bottom limit, is -2x. So it's going to be minus -2x. So the top function minus the bottom equation. And that’s from -1 to 0. And then plus the integral from 0 to 3 will be the top function which is x+3 minus the bottom one which is 2x. So you have to split that up at some point so that you're removing that absolute value from the integral. So now we have two separate integrals. They're pretty easy to do. But I just want you to notice that because we had different equations as the lower bound we had to split it into two separate integrals here and it's upper minus lower in each of those integrals. So, simplifying this was going to have the integral of 3x+3 dx from -1 to 0 plus the integral of –x+3 dx from 0 to 3. Integrating I have 3x^2 over 2 + 3x from -1 to 0 and then plus –x^2 over 2 +3x from 0 to 3. Simplifying, put the 0 in first. We have a 0 minus(and now I'm going to put a -1 into everything) 3/2 minus 3 plus(put the 3 in) -9/2 + 9(put the 0 in) minus zero. So 3/2 is the area to the left of the y-axis plus 9/2 all equal to 6. So that's the area of that region. Be sure you have the same upper and lower bound the entire region or you'll have to split it into separate integrals