I want to find the area of the region that is bound between two curves. Recall back in Cal 1 you were given a function y=f(x) and you wanted to find the area between the function and the x-axis. So you were given two x values, maybe x=a and x=b here. So the area between the function and the x-axis was this region. Now if you recall, to find that, you found the definite intergral of the function from a to b. The only problem with that was when the area was actually below the x-axis. So if you have a region with a function below the x-axis, this definite intergral didnt actually give you the area. It gave you the negative of the area. It was assigned area. They called it the net area. So you have to be fully aware of when the function was above when it was below and then if you found the intergral you have to make sure to go back and stick that minus sign in to make it a positive area. Ok what we’re going to do here looking at this region thats bound between two functions is were going to no longer have to worry about making that area here negative and I will show you that in just a minute. So what we have is 2 curves here's y=f(x) and y=g(x). We want to find the area between two x values here. So were looking for the area of this entire region. So what were going to do is just like you did in Cal 1 youre going to break that interval AB into sub intervals. So you have X sub zero, X sub one, and so one. And youre going to look at just one of those sub regions here and youre going to form a rectangle here. The height of the rectangle will go between the two functions. So this is the y value for the X sub k that’s in that little sub interval so thats the y value for the F function and this is the y value for the G function. Now if were trying to find this one area for this one rectangle here I can do that by looking at the height times the width. Well the height of that rectangle actually ends up being that functions f value at X sub k minus the function g value at X sub k. That f(Xsubk) will give you the distance above the x-axis. And if I subtract the g value, if its below the x-axis, it going to be negative. So by subtracting it, its going to be adding that extra amount to the height. And if they were both above the x-axis, like in this case here, just take the difference because f would be all the way down to the x-axis and g would be where this functions value is. So f minus g would still be calculating the height of that rectangle. So, to find the area between the 2 functions, youre going to find the area of this one region which its height is f(Xsubk) minus g(Xsubk) times delta x which is the width of that one rectangle. Were going to add up these rectangles starting with k=1 to k=n. And then were going to take the limit as the number of rectanges increases, so as n goes to infinity. And that gives us that definite integral of f(x) minus g(x) dx (from a to b). So that’s the formula were going to use to get the area between 2 functions. And its real simple. You just need to know which function has the largest y values, and which one is the one on bottom.




By definition if f and g are continuous functions and the f is greater than or equal to g, that means it’s the upper bound. So if you drew the rectangles, it’s the one that the top of the rectangle is touching. The area would be the f(x) minus the g(x). I want to go back to the one where the area was below the a-axis and the one above it. If I were looking at this first one here. The area between two functions. The top function is y=f(x). The bottom function is the x-axis which is just y=0. Then the integral of the top function which is f(x) minus the bottom function which is y=0 is just the integral of f(x)dx. What about down here though? When the function was below the x-axis and heres our upper bound now y=0? If I were setting this up as the area between two curves, I would take the upper bound, which is the zero minus the lower bound which is the f(x). I would now have negative the integral of f(x)dx which remember if f(x) is below the x-axis(that region is below x-axis) that integral is going to be negative. This minus takes care of that. You don’t have to worry about putting another minus. Just look at this and say, if 
I drew a representative rectangle in this region wheres my upper bound? My upper bound is going to be y=0. My lower bound is going to be the lower line y=f(x). Upper minus the lower gives us the 0 minus f(x).




Lets look at a problem. I want to find the area of the region bound by these two graphs. The first thing to do if youre asked for an area or a volume you’ve got to get the graph. If you don’t get a good graph to see what the upper bound and lower bound is and where these things intersect and the regions. You have to have the regions shaded or you have no chance. So draw this graph. I don’t care if you use a calculator or want to plot points. The graph y= 4 over the square root of x+1 is going to look like this. The graph y=x-1. Everybody should be familiar with the line y=x-1 is right here. The third boundary is the y-axis. So this is our left boundary. So the region were talking about being bounded by all these functions is all of this in here. You’ve got to get the region that youre going to be finding the area of shaded. So now lets figure it out. If you drew a rectangle, the very first one is going to be right here where x=0 and youre going to keep positioning these rectangles from left to right until you get to where the region ends which is over here at x=3. Ill show you how to get that in a minute. So our limits of integration are going to be from zero to three. And now look at that entire region. Is the same curve the upper bound throughout that region? Well yes it is. If you look at what all of those rectangles would go up to and stop at, they stop at this curve. So that’s my upper bound, the four over the square root of x+1. Now look at the lower bound. Every one of those rectangles that I drew will be resting on the bottom boundary y=x-1. When I set this up, Im going to have the integral of the upper bound which is four over the square root of x+1 minus the lower bound. Be careful here. Its minus the entire function. Youre going to have to distribute that minus one through. Then our limits of integration will be from zero to three. So now all we have to do is find that integral. Let me go back to see how do we know our right boundary is three. You can use your calculator. If you use that CALC key on your calculator you can look at the intersection and you can find where these two functions intersect if you enter these two functions into your calculator.
If you wanted to do this algebraically, you would set the two functions equal to each other. Four over the square root of x+1 = x-1. I would go ahead and say 4=(x-1)*sqrt(x+1). I would square both sides. So Im going to have (x-1)^2(x+1)=16. This is going to be a cubic equation. You can see if you multiply out the right it has an x^3. So you would have to expand all of this out and have that equal to 16. (x^2-2x+1)(x+1)=16. Remember to solve a cubic equation you have to get everything on one side and re-factor. So multiply this out, combine the 16, bring it over, and youre going to have something like x^3-x^2-x-15=0. You can check it if you put 3 in for x. So 3 is a solution to this. From here you would have to go find the possible rational roots. Get the factors of 15 (1,3,5,15). Then start trying them using synthetic division or just plugging them in. Its not a simple process but that’s how you would do it if you wanted to do it algebraically. Were going to assume that we have that from the calculator and now we just need to evaluate this integral. Now Im going to split it up because this first integral, four over the square root of x+1, can be re-written as the integral of 4(x+1)^-1/2dx. And then the next one Im going to have a minus the integral of xdx plus the integral of 1dx. Im doing these separately because when I do that u substitution, its going to change the limits of integration. These others are all right now from zero to three. The first one looks like the power rule except its not just a single x inside. So that’s why I have to use the u substitution. The u substitution here is going to be letting u=x+1, that is a composition, and then du is going to just be dx. So if I switch those over to u Im going to have the integral of 4(u)^-1/2du. Now I have to change my limits of integration. I started with x=0 and x=3 and using this I can find out what the u values are going to be so u=1 and u=4. So those will be my new limits of integration for just the one that I did the u substitution on. Now this other one Ive got a minus x^2 over 2 and I want to evaluate that from 0 to 3 and then I have plus x evaluated from 0 to 3. Integrate this one using the power rule. Youre going to have 4u^1/2 divided by ½ which is times 2 from 1 to 4 and then Im going to plug in my three into this. Im going to have a minus 9/2 and when I plug in my zero using the fundamental theorem of calculus its going to be zero and then the same thing with the 3. Plug the 3 in here. Ive got plus 3 and when I plug in a zero I get zero. So I have 8*square root of u from 1 to 4 minus 3/2 and now putting my 1 and my 4 from my u Im going to have 8 * 2 minus 8 * 1 minus 3/2 . So I have 16 minus 8 minus 3/2 so that’s 8 minus 3/2 which is 13/2. So that the area we have in that shaded region. Real simple. Its just the upper bound minus the lower bound