Now we are going to look at the volume of a specific kind of solid, called the solid of revolution. We are going to start with a function y=f(X), the f(x) is greater or equal to zero, so we do have this above the x a-axis. We have an integral from a to b.  We are going to remember region R is to find in xy  plane. So this region is the shaded region, this area that we are given. They are going to tell us what region to use, and then we are going to take that region and we are going to revolve around the x-axis when we do that we are going to create a solid So I will show you how is that occurring. So, now we are going to pick any x and I am just going to control the xs location here. I am just going to pick any x. and that is where it is representing one of our little rectangles that we are going to use, you know to get a disk, so when we get to take that little red line which is like a rectangle revolved around that is one cross-section of our solid, so then we are going the get the area of that one cross-section and find the volume by multiplying by the thickness area and then integrating to get what that volume in the whole solid it is going to be. So, let’s go ahead and…I am taking that one piece there and revolving it around, and what is in blue its actually the disk that is formed by that red line that got revolved. Now, the solid that you are getting from that is this right here, so that is for the whole region R that gets rotated around you got this solid so to get that volume we are going we are going to take this one disk here that we got by revolving this one little segment around the x-axis and we just want to find the volume of that one disk now just like the last problem that one cross-section will get the volume by taking the area of that times the thickness, the thickness will be our delta x. so the area of that it is going to be a circle so it’s just pi r^2 and what is good about this is that the radius is just this distance right here so this will be just the radius for that disk over here and so the area it’s just going to  be  pi r^2, so let’s go back and….. ok…ok. So this is the disk method you form a disk by taking that one cross section here and spinning it around the x-axis ok. So now f continues to function equals or greater to zero. The Region R defined by the graph of f the x-axis on those two lanes  x=a and x=b it’s what it is revolved, so you need to get a picture of that region that we are going to be revolving first, and now the volume then it’s just going to be pi r^2 where the r it’s just that function value so pi r^2 all you are doing is that you are getting the integral of that area of that one disk and then times the delta x which actually gives you the volume of that disk so that integral accumulates all those volumes ok so now the disk method r is going to be the region defined by the curve f(x)=(x+1)^2  so we know that it’s just a parabola the vertex will at (-1,0) something like that the x-axis and the lines x=0 and x=2 ok so x=0 is here x=2 will be somewhere over here and then the x-axis so we got this region right here that we will be rotating that the shade of region r. so we are revolving this around the x-axis. So all I need to do then is to figure out if I take one sliver of this thing one little slice here revolved in around the x-axis I am going to have this disk I need to find the area of that disk. So, the volume here will be the integral of the area of one that disk which I know it’s a circle so it’s just pi r^2 and my r in that case r is  the height from here up to the curve in that curve is the function f so it’s just going to be the f of x which is the x plus 1^2 now that is the f of x that I need to square it so this is my pi times the f of x squared. Ok our limits of integration we were told to go from x=0 to x=2 so we are going to go from 0 to 2 so now to integrate this we’ve got pi times now I have x+1 to the fourth power now this one I can do by u-substitution or expand that whole thing out which I really rather not so I am just going to use u-substitution. The u is going to be equal just to the x+1 the du it’s just the same as dx my limits I would say ahead x=0 and x=2 for the x values the corresponding x values given by this formula would be u=1 and u=3 so I am going to from 1 to 3 when I switch over so this is going to be the integral from 1 to 3 of pi out here u to the fourth du so I’ve got pi times u to the fifth over five and then that is from one to three. So I’ve got two hundred and forty three over five pi minus so I have 242/5 ok that is the disk method