And now look at the same problem but instead of revolving around the x-axis were going to revolve around the line y equals 2. So let us draw the graph of the region again. We got the function y equals the square root of x-2. We have the line y equals 2. And this time we're going to revolve around y equals -2. This is the line that it is going be revolved around. Now looking at the region we still have the same shaded area that's going to be revolved. So we want to take a representative rectangle. Now because were revolving it around a horizontal line that representative rectangle is going to be a specific y value. I need to pick something between it. It needs to be parallel to the line were revolving it around if we're going to do a shell method. And we need to pick something in the shaded region. So it needs to be between where the y is 0 and the y is 2. So let me just pick this particular place here. And that's just some arbitrary y value between 0 and 2. So when we set up our limits of integration we're going to have 0 to 2 for the possible y values and that's just one particular y value we're going to use. Now if I take that rectangle and revolve it around I am going be creating a cylinder and that cylinder is going to look something like this. What I need to do is figure out I am going to have 2pi times the radius. The shell method is always 2pi times the radius times the height and in the DX is the thickness of it. So 2pi* radius. Now the radius for this cylinder is the distance from that arbitrary y which is the wall of the cylinder to the line that it is rotating about. So the radius of this cylinder goes from the middle, which here is the middle that cylinder, and it goes up to this arbitrary line. So that radius will be-now it is associated with that y value but it is not going to be y as its been in the past because y is referring to the height above the x-axis. The actual distance here for this radius will be the y value plus an additional 2 for the 2 units that are below the x-axis. So this height which is the radius of the cylinder is actually going to be y+2. So that's what I am going to use for my radius in the integral. Now the next thing I need is the height of the cylinder. Looking at this cylinder, the height of the cylinder is going to be the distance that is found here to here. You have to look at the cylinder sideways. The height of that cylinder though would be from the bottom ring to the top one. That distance is determined by the function because it goes from the y-axis over to that curve y equals the square root of x-2. What you have to ask yourself though is Is that an x value or a y value? It is a point on this curve here. But because it is a horizontal distance, we're measuring the x value here. So we need to know what the functions description of x would be. So take this equation, solve for x. So we have y^2 equals x -2 that means that x equals  y^2+2. Horizontal distances are x values. Be sure to get your function defined. So now for a given y, whatever that y is that we randomly chose, the x given by this equation will be the height of that cylinder. So we have the height is y^2 +2 and then we're dealing with y so the thickness of this thing is going to be delta y(the thickness of this is right here, this rectangle) and so we have our DY. So now its just a matter of integrating. You need to multiply this out. I am going to pull the 2pi out in front and use FOIL. So it would be the integral of y^3+2y^2+2y+4 dy. So I am going to have y^4 over 4 + 2y^3 over 3 +y^2 + 4y from 0 to 2. And all of this is multiplied by the 2pi out front. So putting the 2 in were going to have 2pi(4+16/3+4+8) and when you put in the zero it is just going to be zero. So now adding that all together you have 2pi(16+16/3) equals  2pi(64/3) and that should be 128pi/3. That would be our volume of that solid that we get by revolving that region around the line y equals -2.