Okay previously when we were using the u substitution I noted that u substitution is how you reverse the chain rule.   so if a problem required you to use the chain rule to take the derivative you would need to use u substitution to take the anti-derivative. Now what we want to look at is how would you find the anti-derivative of a function that requires a product rule. So integration by parts reverses the product rule. 
Okay so I want to start with a function u(x) v(x) and I want to take its derivative so I want the derivative of u(x) and v(x) with respect to x. Well product rule says that will be u(x) times v'(x) plus v(x) times u'(x). 
Now let's integrate both sides so I'm going to rewrite this the anti-derivative of the left side. 
And I'm going to have u(x) times v'(x) dx plus the integral of v(x) times u'(x) dx. 
Now the anti-derivative of the derivative of u(x) v(x) will just be u(x) v(x) 
because that's just the integral of the derivative now on the right side v'(x) dx is just dv. 
u'(x) dx is just du. So now that just to simplify the notation here I've got u(x) v(x) equal to the integral u(x) dv 
or simply just u dv. Plus the integral of v(x) du or just v du
 and that's equal to just u times v. 
Okay so now what I've got, I'm going to take this 
and I'm going to solve it for the integral of u*dv. 
Because we are going to be given an integral and we have to apply a rule to find the anti-derivative so I'm going to solve for this integral of u*dv which will be u times v minus the integral of v du 
okay so what we are going to do is we will use this formula called integration by parts. We will be given a problem and see if it matches this form so we determine what our u will be and what are DV will be and then use those values to rewrite it in this other form so we can figure out what the anti-derivative would be. So here's your formula 
u and v are both differential functions and integral u*dv is equal to UV minus the integral v*du. So let's see how we choose those Us and DVs.

In this problem I see a product. A lot of times you have a product in the integrand when using integration by parts so we have to figure out then how can I rewrite this so we can get the form to match the formula of the integration by parts. So we want the integral of u*dv to be equal to UV minus the integral of v*du.  You got to figure out what your U is going to be and what your DV is going to be, everything there has to be part of the U or part of the DV. Now suggestion on this, a lot of times when you have a powers of X. They make really good choices for the U so choose those if you're trying to figure out your U in most cases. DV needs to be something you can integrate because if you look at this you're going to choose the U and DV based on what you're given and then you're going to have to use U and V on the other side so if you're starting with the U notice I'm also going to have a DU over here so if I choose a U it's easy to get the derivative of almost anything now. But if I start with the DV on the left side I've got to be able to come up with the V on the right side. So choose your DV to be something you can integrate. So DV should be something easy to integrate. Okay so now in this problem I'm going to choose my U to be the X since it's a power of the X and I'm a choose my DV to the everything else which is going to be e to the power of X DX now to apply the formula though, I have got to find out what my V and my DU is going to be because I have to plug those into the right side. So if U is X,  DU will be just the derivative of X which is 1*DX. If DV is E to the X DX then that means if I integrate both sides I will have V is equal to E to the X. So now let's just plug it in. I know that this has to be equal to U times V minus the integral of V times DU. So now plugging in my U which is X and my V which is E to the X minus the integral of V which is E to the X times DU which is just equal DX. Okay so what we just did is we just turned this integral X E to the X into a problem with a simpler integral. We can get the integral of E to X really easily so this would just be X E to the X minus E to the X and of course we always need that plus C and so we just did our first integration by parts. So now what that tells me is that this function if I were to take the derivative of it, would require the product rule and it better give me XE to the X, Because we just reversed the differentiation. So let's check this one, so if I were taking the derivative of this I'd use the product rule since it's two functions of X multiplied together. So it have the first one times a derivative of the second (the derivative of E to the X is just the E to the X) plus the second one which is E to the X times the derivative of the first which is just one. So that's just the derivative of letter X E to the X via the product rule. And now minus the derivative of E to the X (which is E to the X) plus the derivative of the constant zero. So I've got X E to the X plus E to the X minus E to the X +0 these cancel and we get X E to the X left. So that's integration by parts

now let's look at this one, again I have that X times sin of X. it's a hint to use integration by parts when you see a product here because there's no product rule in integration but to reverse that you have to use the integration by parts. So now I've got to choose my U and dv which needs to resemble my u*dv because if I get that that I can have UV minus the integral of v*du. So now X sin of X and that's going to leave our DV to be everything else which is going to be sin X DX just make sure that you can integrate the DV. Okay so if U is X and that means that your DU is just DX. And if DV is sin X DX then your V is going to be negative cos X. So now you took the derivative of cos it would be negative sin that's why I need that extra negative there to give me this sin of X for the derivative. Okay so now plug-in the parts the U here is just X the V will be negative cos X and I'm putting it in parentheses so you don't think it's a subtraction. And then minus the integral of V which is negative cos of X and then the DU which is just DX. So now I've got negative X cos of X plus the integral of cos of X. In the integral of cos of X is just sin of X. So I've got minus X cos of X plus sin of X plus C in this came out to be the integral of X sin of X. So now if I want to check it, I would need to take the derivative of this side and make sure that it came out to be X sin of X. So the derivative would be the first term times the derivative of the second which is negative sin of X plus the second term cos of X times the derivative of the first which is -1 and then plus the derivative of sin of X which is cost of X and in the derivative of C is zero. So you'll see that the -1 cos of X cancels with the cos of X I end up with just a X sin of X which is what we started with in the integrand.
