
Okay we are going to talk about power series now. Back in algebra, you studied polynomials. A polynomial had a degree, lets see if we had a polynomial, I will call it a zero-degree polynomial, p of zero of x is just having a constant term. 
That means that the power on the x will be a 0. P1(x). Polynomial of degree 1. You could represent a polynomial as a constant term plus some constant times x to the 1st power.
P2(x). that is when you had a constant term, a term multiplied by the x, and then another term called quadratic x^2. So that is a polynomial of degree 2. 
Okay you can continue here. A polynomial of degree n was some expression that was written some real numbers coefficient where you had powers of x up to degree n. so c1 x^1 + c2 x^2 + c3 x^3 all the way up to cn x^n. Okay so that is the general form for a polynomial degree n. 
Okay now what a power series is, a power series is an infinite series. So we are going to have expressions of the form c0 x^0 + c1 x^1 + c2 x^2 plus when we plug in k=n I will have cn x^k but then it just continues going.  It is up to infinity. 
This is a power series. So you see it looks like a polynomial if you chopped it off and only took the first n terms, but when it is infinite it is a power series. Now the coefficients of ck here are all real numbers. 
The center of the power series we are actually looking at a specific x value and centering the power series at that point. We will look more at what that means later. The center of it is the value a. So if we let a be 0 we are just going to have a power series of this form.
So this is the power series centered at a. 
Centered at a=0
Okay so the center of a power series is that a term if there is one. Okay now what we are going to be doing is we are going to be looking at functions and we want to approximate them with polynomials
Now the reason is if you take a polynomial, lets say we had a polynomial like a p(x) = 2x^2 - 5x + 3. If I want to evaluate that polynomial, all I need to do is be able to multiply and add and subtract and you know if you have fractions involved then you can do some division.
Evaluating a polynomial is very easy. It only requires those basic operations. But now lets say that you had an expression like square root of 2^62 + 3 or sinx or lnx or e^x. These are much more difficult to evaluate.
Okay, so what we are going to do, our goal is to take these functions and find the function that is a polynomial that approximate those. So we want to approximate these with the polynomial. 
It can give us something more easy to evaluate. In calculators in the past at least in the past they did, they used these polynomials approximation to evaluate sin, ln and some of those types of functions.
So that is our goal here. So the first one I want to look at is a linear approximation. That means I got a function, the function is the one in black here, this is my y=f(x) and I want to approximate that with first a linear function, meaning I want a polynomial of degree 1. 
Okay now in calculus 1 you approximated some functions with polynomial of degree 1 by using the tangent line, if I am going to find the line that pass through, that approximates this functions at x=a, then for sure I want it to have the same value as that functions does at a. So I definitely want this, the 1, p(1) is my approximation. I want p1(a) be the same as the function is at a. If the polynomials approximating then they should at least should agree at that point. 
And now if you look at a small interval around a, you know if that function f did not have a lot of curvature to it, if it was pretty flat, then I could use that line here to approximate it and I would take the y values of that line for the x value, you know in a region close to that a. 
Okay, so the goal here is to get a line that approximates that function in a region around a, some small interval around a, and I want the polynomial at a to agree with the function and if I want to get the best line, I mean I can choose any line. I can choose this line. I can choose that line. If I can choose any line I want to get the one that is going to be closest to the values of f near a.
The one that is going to do that is the one that actually matches the slope, the derivative at a also. The line that matches the derivative at a is going to be the tangent line. That is going to be the line that actually has the closest y values to that function around a.
So we also then want to have that p1 prime of a, that is the derivative of p1 that is the slope of the line. I want that to match the derivative of the function at a. Okay, so all I am saying is I want the tangent line. I want it to match the functions value that goes through that point and has the same slope. So we want to find the tangent line.
Okay so find the tangent line. I know I can find the equation of a line by using the slope-intercept form, point-slope form. y - y1 = m(x - x1). I am given a point on the graph, the point I am going to use is (a, f(a)). Now the slope I am going to use is f prime of a. So that is the slope of that line at x=a.
So my tangent line will be the line y-f(a), my (x1, y1), equals f prime of a times x minus a. So the tangent line is y equal f of a plus f prime of a(x-a). Okay so that is my linear approximation.
It is a function that matches the derivative and the y value at the point x=a. And notice that it is a specific x value so that is what I mean by center. It is looking at a specific x value
Okay notice here, this is a polynomial of the form c0 plus c1(x-a). This is that polynomial that resembles that Taylor, that power series form. Okay so this is the formula we are going to use for our linear approximation. 
Now I want a quadratic approximation. I do not want just want a line. I want to get a quadratic. A parabola that is going to be the closest parabola that I could get to the function y=f(x). Now if I am trying to find a parabola that is going to match this, I am looking for something that matches the values as close as possible to that y=f(x)
Then I am going to want the polynomial p1(a) to be equal to f(a). I want the y values, lets see I am looking for p2. P2 is my quadratic function that is going to approximate f(x). So that is my quadratic approximation.
Okay so I want p2(a) to be f(a). I want the derivative of p2 at a to be f prime of a. and now if I want to get the best parabola that I could possibly get, the next thing I want to check is I want the concavity to be the same. Okay so if I get one more that matches concavity that means that p2 double prime at a is going to match the second derivative at a.
Okay, now we already have that linear approximation which that linear approximation actually matches the point value and it matches the first derivative. So our linear approximation is y equal f(a) plus f prime of a times x minus a
That was our linear approximation. So now what I want to do is I want to extend that to a parabola. So I am going to put another term that is going to be a quadratic term. Notice this is that x minus a to the first. I am going to have an expression some c2(x-a)^2. That is going to ensure that I have a quadratic now to approximate it and I want all these conditions to be met
Okay so if this is the general form for a quadratic that is going to approximate the function y=f(x) then I need the functions value to match. That means that if I put in x=a then I need the y values are going to be the same.
So let me call this function though instead of y, just to help make it easier to follow, I am going to call this p2(x), my quadratic approximation. And I know p2(a) needs to be f(a). So I need to make sure that is true.
Well plug in a for x and I am going to have p2(a) equal to f(a) plus f prime of a(a-a) plus c2(a-a)^2. And of course this and this are 0 so we can get that p2(a) is the same as the y value of a. 
Okay now I also need the p2 prime of a is f prime of a. So now lets plug in, find the derivative first. Okay if I find f2 prime, f2 prime, f2 prime of x will be, now the derivative of f(a). f(a) is just a number so the derivative of it will be 0. The derivative of this term, I am going to have f prime of a times x and f prime of a times a which will just be a number
So the derivative of f prime of a times x will just be f prime of a and now the derivative of this second term, I have a power so I need to bring the power, multiply in front. 2 times c2, the x minus a to the 1st power. Now the derivative of the inside which will just be 1 because I am taking the derivative with respect to x
So this is p2 prime. Now lets check. Is p2 prime of a f prime of a?
I am going to let x=a and I will have p2 prime of a is equal to f prime of a plus 2 c2 and then put in the a, a minus a, that is just 0. And so we have p2 prime is f prime at a. 
Okay so now the other thing that needs to be true is I need the 2nd derivative of a to be equal to f double prime of a. So that is the last thing I need to have true. So all three of these conditions are going to be met if I can get this one to be met.
Okay so to do that I need to find the 2nd derivative. So I am going to come back to here, right here, and I want to take the 2nd derivative. P2 double prime, so the derivative of this, the derivative of f prime of a is 0. The derivative of this now it will be 2 c2 times x, the derivative of that will be 2 c2, and then 2 c2 times a is just the constant which the derivative will be 0
So p double prime of x is just 2 c2, but I need p double prime of  a to be f double prime of a. So that means I am going to plug in x=a and I want to have p2 double prime of a equal to 2 c2, but this needs to be f double prime of a which means then that my c2, in order for this polynomial right here to match the function value, the derivative and the 2nd derivative at a with this function f, c2 must be 1/2 f double prime at a.
So my polynomial approximation then, go back to that function that I had right here, my quadratic approximation p2(x) will be f(a) plus f prime of a(x minus a) plus 1/2 f double prime of a(x-a)^2 
And that is our quadratic approximation for the function y=f(x) at x=a. And that is going to be the closest parabola to the function f at the point x=a

Okay so now lets find the linear approximation and quadratic approximation for the function y=lnx. Okay if I am trying to find the linear approximation of y=lnx I need to find a point. The point will be (a,f(a)). So my a here they are giving me is 1 so that is going to be (1,f(1)) which is (1,ln1) which is the point (1,0).
Okay now let me find the derivative. y prime is equal to 1/x. So now, which is f prime, that means that f prime of 1 is equal to just 1. Okay so my linear approximation p1(x) is equal to f(1), my a is 1, plus f prime of 1, x minus 1. So all I am doing is I am putting in a=1 into that linear approximation that we came up with.
Okay, f of 1 is 0. This is 0. F prime of 1 is 1 so I end up getting just x - 1. That is the line, the equation of the line, that approximates y=lnx at the point x=1 best. And now looking at the graph okay we have the black one there is lnx. The red one is actually that line y=x-1. You see the y intercept there is -1. Slope is 1. And that is going to be the closest one so as long as we have x values near 1 we should get a pretty good approximation for lnx.
Okay so that is the linear approximation. Let me go ahead and go down to part c here. I want to see the approximation to estimate ln(1.05). So ln of 1.05 is approximately p1(1.05). I am just putting in 1.05 where my x is and that is just going to be 1.05 - 1 which is .05. That is an approximation for ln of 1.05 using that line for our approximation. 
Okay, lets look at our quadratic approximation. Quadratic approximation, okay we had that p2(x) is equal to f(1) plus f prime of 1(x minus 1) plus 1/2 f prime of 1(x - 1)^2. That is the formula that we got for a quadratic approximation using a = 1.
Now these terms, f(1) plus f prime of 1(x - 1), that we have already determined. We already simplified that. This is just x - 1. So the only part we need to still determine is this 1/2 f prime of, actually f double prime of 1 (x-1)^2. Well lets find f double prime of 1.
F double prime of x, f prime is 1/x so f double prime will be -1/x^2. Just rewrite this as x^-1 and use your power rule. So that means f double prime of 1 will be equal to -1. So I have 1/2 times -1 times (x-1)^2. This is our quadratic approximation for the function y=f(x). 
Okay so now if we want to actually use that approximation to approximate ln(1.05) I know that is going to be approximately p2(1.05). p2 is that quadratic polynomial that is approximating it. And this is just going to be 1.05 - 1 - 1/2(1.05 - 1)^2 which comes out to be approximately .04875. Use your calculator. And it is pretty close to the other approximation. Now if you want to actually see a more accurate answer, use your calculator.
Ln(1.05) = .04879 to five decimal places. And we are always approximating because we got to round it at some point. But you can see that we have a pretty good approximation just using a parabola and just using a line near 1. Now the further away you get from 1 of course these two polynomials will not be as good a approximation. As long as you get near this area you can see that the line .5 is that black, that red, and that blue parabola coincide pretty well. 
But the further away we get, lets say we came over here to 2, the error involved with approximating using the line would be this distance right here and the parabola would be this distance in here. 
So it is still going to be a better approximation further away using the parabola than the line is but the error gets to be greater the further away from 1 you get.
So that is why you center it at a point because then that is where you have the functions agreeing, the derivative and the second derivative and you are just going to have better accuracy anywhere need that a value. So center it at a specific number near where you are trying to calculate values at.
